Welcome to the eLearning session
"Getting Started with Ensemble:
Configuration Settings."
Many of the items you add
to an Ensemble Production
are standard classes
provided by InterSystems
or make use of adapters
provided by InterSystems.
These components make use
of Configuration Settings
to work in your
particular environment.
As a very simple example,
consider a Business Service
using a file inbound adapter.
The file path and the
file specifications
used by the adapter
are not hard coded.
They are taken from
Configuration Settings
in your Production.
Many business
components can be added
to a production that are
implemented by the same class
but perform different
roles because they
are configured differently.
Settings can be applied
to all configuration
items in a Production or to
the Production as a whole.
To configure settings, go to
the Production Configuration
page in the Ensemble
Management Portal.
If you select the link
Production Settings and use
the Settings tab, you
can modify the settings
for the overall Production.
There are a couple
settings that are
relevant for your Production,
such as Testing Enabled
to allow you to test
your Production,
as well as the default
Actor Pool Size.
If you select an individual
item in the left hand panel,
the Settings tab will show
the settings for that item.
The settings are grouped
into different categories.
In the Informational
Settings group,
you will see some fields, such
as a Class Name and the Adapter
Class Name, that are
not really settings
but are shown here for
reference and convenience.
The settings you are
most likely to change
should be in the
Basic Settings group.
Settings in the
other groups come
with defaults, many
of which hopefully
match your requirements and
do not need to be changed.
Let's look at a couple examples.
First, we will examine
MyBusinessService
in eLearning.DemoProduction.
In the Informational
Settings group,
you can see that
the Adapter Class
is EnsLib.File.InboundAdapter.
When we look at
the Basic Settings,
you can see settings that
are specific to that adapter,
including the File Path, the
File Specifications, Archive
Path, and the Work Path.
Looking at MyTCPService,
we see that it
uses a TCP inbound adapter.
As a result, you see additional
settings, such as port number.
And, in the new
Connections Settings
group added because
of the TCP service,
we have the IP address.
The MySQLOperation
Business Operation
uses the
EnsLib.SQL.OutboundAdapter.
Here, the Basic Settings
include the DSN and credentials.
The Connection Settings
handle JDBC connectivity,
if they're required.
The actual SQL statement
is handled in the class
eLearning.SQLOperation,
providing flexibility
in creating the query.
As you continue to look
at different adapters,
you will see that
they all have settings
that are appropriate for
their particular technology.
Some settings are applicable
to all configuration items,
regardless of the
adapter technology.
These include
whether the item is
Enabled, the Pool
Size for the item,
when it is scheduled
to run, how they
behave in the event of an
error, as well as others.
I started by saying
that you can control
standard components
delivered by InterSystems,
but you may want to add
settings to components
you build yourself.
So let's take a look at how
they appear inside of a class.
For example, you
may have written
the eLearning.SQLOperation
Business Operation class.
If we look in
Studio, you can see
that it's a fairly simple
class that updates a table.
One value comes from the
Request, one is a timestamp,
and the other is a department
that is hard coded to Sales.
If I want department
to be configurable,
I can make it a setting.
First, I would add a property
for Department to the class.
I can use this
value in my update
by replacing the
hard coded literal
with a reference to the property
now to make property a setting.
I add a SETTINGS parameter.
Note that the word
SETTINGS is all uppercase
and Department must match the
case of the property name.
You can provide many property
names, separated by commas.
This will automatically expose
the setting in the management
portal.
As we can see, when
we compile the class
and refresh the
management portal.
When we now look
at MySQLOperation,
we will see that, in
the Additional Settings,
we now have Department, that
was not there previously.
The SETTINGS parameter
has some special tricks.
If you have defined
it in a superclass,
it does not
overwrite that value.
It appends new values to the
existing list of settings.
You can even suppress a setting
declared in a superclass
by using a minus sign.
You would do this if
you decided to hard code
a setting to a particular value
in your application logic.
Note that the settings
can be defined
in the business host,
that is a Business Service
Process or Operation, or in
the adaptor that is used.
These settings all
appear together
in the configuration page.
Now let's talk about how
the settings are stored
into Production and
what happens when
you promote a Production from
development to test to live.
Going back to
Studio, we will look
at the XML for our Production.
The settings appear in the XML
definition for the production.
As you can see here,
for MyBusinessService,
we have the various settings
coming from the adapter file
path and so forth.
If you export this class
from your test system
and import it into
a live system,
these settings will be copied.
If there's a previous
version of this configuration
item in the settings,
it will be overwritten.
In many cases, this
is exactly what
you want but for some
settings, such as TCP/IP
addresses or file
paths, the values
on the test system
and the live system
are intentionally different.
If you overwrote the TCP address
setting of a live Business
Operation with the values
from the test system,
live messages would be routed
to your test environment.
To avoid this, you can set
up system default settings
that are stored outside of
the production definition.
If you do this, and specify
that this setting should
look for the system
default setting,
the value will not
be copied across
in the production
definition, so the value
will not be overwritten.
You have been watching
Getting Started With Ensemble:
Configuration Settings.